Odd Ant/Secret Home Shopkeeper/ Shopper Keep

First Dialog Outside

Oi! Young Blood, what'cha loitering so high around my hidie hole?!
Don't you go drilling me out that I ain't working, YOU're in no better position than ME.
Now scram.
...

Second/Quest Dialog Outside

Say, if you got the time to be climbing around here...
Can ya make the time to find my key? I may or may-NOT be willing to share some goodies in my abode, if you depart with some honey.
See, I sorta lost it at The Bay and ain't had the chance to get back there. Whole' "Strength In Numbers" thing, y'know?
Its- It's wooden, I carved it myself!
Thanks, kid..

Third/Quest Dialog Outside

Did you find it, the key?
No?
Then why are you still here, climbing for the view?
If it's comfort ya need, than you ain't getting no here.

Forth/Quest Complete Dialog Outside

Oh. Ohohohoho! Red Gem, The Key! The Key! You found MY Key!
Now Gimmie it here!

LOGIC PROBLEM

It completes The first intro dialog, but then automatically goes to fetch quest completed dialog and loops forever, unable to leave it.
What I want is for normal NPC's that don't have anything going to have 2-3 normal dialog places that they finish and go to the next until they repeat the last one they said IF they player interacts with them on their own and not stuck in a loop. Though if the player leaves the scene and returns, it'll make the NPC reset their dialog state and start at the first one.
For fetch quest NPC's I want them to have 1 normal dialog (that will never be said again) before they ask for their quest, like say ask to find a preferb key in another scene that they'll somehow remember IF we got it (could add a yes or no option for the player to respond, IDK I'm too lazy for that). If we don't have the key, they wont say their first normal dialog nor will they ask for the fetch quest again, but instead will have 1-2 fetch quest related dialog asking the player if they found it and giving them a hint. Then when the Player HAS the preferb key, THEN the fetch quest NPC has their last completed dialog and the preferb key disappears from our personage, making the NPC disappear and suddenly a door is opened now.